Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. Programming language is a special language that programmers use to develop software programs.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each component?
A. Java Development Kit -JDK contains various components such as The Compiler, The Debugger,Run Time Interpreter,
The Applet Viewer, The Header, API Source Code, The class file disassembler and The Documentation Generator. 

What is IDE?
A. Integrated Development Environment is an application which enables users to more easily write and debug Java programs.  

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. IntelliJ  and Eclipse but there are others that are available (i.e. NetBeans).

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Java code is written in text editor or in java IDE and saved as dot(.)java extension which is then compiled by
using java compiler and create  a .class file. Class file contains bytecode. The class file then loads into the JVM using
java loader. Finally, JVM reads the bytecode  in memory and translate them into machine code for us to see the output. 

what is class?
A. Class is a blueprint of an Object .

What is object?
A. Object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. Main Method

Why main is static?
A. The main method is static because they can be invoked by the runtime engine
without having to instantiate an instance of the parent class. 

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. The Object class, which is stored in the java.lang package, is the ultimate superclass of all Java classes

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path refers to the system while classpath refers to the Developing Environment.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.-Interface: In interface we cannot declare a body. All methods in Interface are abstract.
   We can have multiple methods in abstract.
   -Abstract class: In abstract class we have to implement the body.
   Abstract class can have non-abstract methods. It can also have abstract method which is not implemented.  

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? if not how do you use it ?
A. No, It's because we can't create an object in abstract class.

what is Access Specifier?
A. Access Specifier just basically gives us access to the class

What is OOP? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object Oriented Programming System Object Orientated Programming System.
    Encapsulation is data hiding -Inheritance is a way to acquire properties from one class to another class 
   Abstraction is implementation hiding -Polymorphism is basically an ability to take on many forms.
   Two types of Polymorphism (Overloading and Overriding)

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. java.lang package is imported by default, no need to explicitly import it.
   Classes in the java.lang package do not need to be imported (the compiler acts like they are always imported).

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. Java API is a list of all the classes that are part of the Java Development Kit (JDK) 

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No, it does through interface only 

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. In overloading we can have the same name but different parameters It happens in compile time

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. When an error occurs within a method, the method creates an object and hands it off to the runtime system. The object,
   called an exception object, contains information about the error,
   including its type and the state of the program when the error occurred.
   Creating an exception object and handing it to the runtime system is called throwing an exception. 
   The Exceptions are handled using try and catch method 

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods?
A. Static keyword that are used for sharing the same variable or method of a given class.
 
Static variable:
  1-It's a variable that's associated with a class and not with the object of the class. 
  2-Static variables are initialized only once. 

  Static Method:
  1- A static method belongs to the class rather than object of a class. 
  2- A static method can be invoked without the need for creating an instance of a class. 
  3- Static method can access static data member and can change the value of it. 

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable.
  Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden, and final variable value can't be changed.
  it's a method For example, if we declare final int x = 1;
  we won’t be able to change the value of x later on because we declared it as a final method. 

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable.
  Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden, and final variable value can't be changed.
  it's a method  -Finally, is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
  It's a block  -Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.
  Finalize is a method. 

What is a constructor?
A. Constructor is used to initialize an object. A class can have multiple constructor.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes, A class can have multiple constructor.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. If a class doesn't have constructor, it will take default constructor. 

What is "this" keyword in java?
A. "this" is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible ways can you use?
A. "Super" keyword is used to call the constructor, methods and properties of a parent class. 
    super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. 
    super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method. 
    super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.  

What is JVM stand for?
A. Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A. Yes, JVM platform independent

What version of java are you using?
A. java version 1.8

What is JAR stand for?
A. Java Archive is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files
  and associated metadata and resources (text, images, etc.) into one file for distribution.  

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JDK is Java Development Kit which include JVM,JRE
   JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine.
  JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.

What is compile time and run time?
A. When an application is running, it is called runtime. 
  The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program,
  this is referred to as compile time.  

What is heap?
A. Heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated. 

How java manage its memory?
A. Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase
  or decrease  in size while the application runs.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. Once a String object is created it cannot be changed -StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object.
   StringBuilder allows manipulating character sequences by appending, deleting and inserting characters and strings.  

What is Singleton class?
A. Singleton class is to control object creation by keeping private constructor

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes
  which can be persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams.
  The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization 

when to use transient variable in java?
A. Java transient keyword is used in serialization. If you define any data member as transient, it will not be serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. In "while" loops, test expression is checked at first but
  in "do...while" loop code is executed at first then the condition is checked.
  So, the code are executed at least once in do...while loops.

What is Enum?
A. Enum is a set of fixed value

What is Iterator?
A. an iterator is an object that enables a programmer to traverse a container

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. int and Integer both represents same number of values

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. Because java uses the concept of string literal. For example there are 5 reference variables,
    all refers to one object "sachin”. If one reference variable changes the value of the object,
    it will be affected to all the reference variables. That is why string objects are immutable in java.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. Serial Collector is mostly designed for single-threaded environments. 
   Parallel Garbage Collector is used for multi-threaded environments  

What is JIT stands for?
A. Just In Time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or
   decrease in size while the application runs. -Garbage collection is the process of looking at heap memory,
   identifying which objects are in use and which are not and deleting the unused objects. 

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. No 

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. When an object is created its stored in the heap 
   Stack creates a memory to the created object
    Stack is used for static

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language. It allows an executing Java program to
   examine or "introspect" upon itself and manipulate internal properties of the program.
   Java Reflection is quite powerful and can be very useful. Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect
   classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc.


what is multithreading in java?
A. Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. A thread is a lightweight
   sub-process, the smallest unit of processing. Multiprocessing and multithreading, both are used to
   achieve multitasking.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with
  multiple threads in Java. Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized
  method which requires the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
A. Frameworks generally refer to broad software development platforms

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. Junit, TestNG

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. In jUniit methods have to be declared as static.
   TestNG does not have this constraint.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A.1. mongo-java-driver-3.4.0
  2. mysql-connector-java-5.1.41-bin.jar
  3.testng-6.8.7.jar


what is dependency injection in java?
A. The general concept behind dependency injection is called Inversion of Control. According to this concept a
   class should not configure its dependencies statically but should be configured from the outside.
   A Java class has a dependency on another class, if it uses an instance of this class. We call
   this a _class dependency. For example, a class which accesses a logger service has a dependency
   on this service class.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime.

